The EFL season is up and running. With a number of rule changes for the new season, the leagues are only going to get a lot tougher and more unpredictable this season. With all the matches across the three leagues – Championship, the League One and the League Two – completed, it is time to review the results and find out the best performers of the week across the three leagues.
Below are some detailed talking points from the games this weekend.

# Championship

## Sheffield Wednesday – Southampton (1 - 2)
The EFL season kicked off at Hillsborough with promoted Wednesday taking on relegated Southampton. The Saints are one of the favourites for immediate promotion back to the Premier League but with Rusell Martin at the helm, it is still going to take some time for the players to get used to Martin’s way of playing. Coming to the game itself at Hillsborough stadium, the Saints showed early glimpses of what can be expected during the Martin era – completing nearly a 1000 passes in the game. Lining up in a 4-3-3 formation with new signing Ryan Manning at LB, the Saints had a number of good performers on the pitch but the standout player was Will Smallbone. The midfielder completed the most passes in the match and with Championship experience already under his belt, Smallbone will be vital to Martin’s way of playing and he surely is one to watch out for over the course of the season. For Sheffield Wednesday, surely this is the start that most expected. The Owls had little things to take way from the game in terms of anything at all and will look to get up to speed next week against Hull City.

## Middlesbrough – Millwall (0-1)
Perhaps the most surprising result of the weekend came from the Riverside stadium where Middlesbrough took on Millwall. Carrick’s men are touted to be one of the favourites for automatic promotion but this is not the start that a lot of them expected. Chuba Akpom, the star from last season missed out on this game because he is not yet fully match-fit having played 0 minutes during the pre-season. Having lost some players during summer because of end of loans and other departures, there were a number of new faces for Boro. Hayden Hackney was one of the best players in the pitch. The midfielder created the most chances in the game and was a passing juggernaut throughout the game.
Millwall, having missed out on playoffs spots last season, could not have asked for a better result to start the season. The goal came from an unlikely source with substitute midfielder Romain Esse, the 18-year-old academy graduate scoring in the last 15 minutes. Lining up in a 3-5-2 formation, Millwall executed their game plan to perfection with defender Shaun Hutchinson putting up a defensive masterclass.

## Watford – QPR (4-0)
The Valérien Ismaël era started in style at Vicarage Road. There could not have been a more one-sided game during the weekend than this Watford vs QPR game. QPR, one of the likeliest to go down this season, did very little over 90 minutes with their stand out performer being new signing Asmir Begovic. If not for the keeper, the evening could have been far worse for Gareth Ainsworth’s men. There are some serious issues to be addressed for QPR if they are to avoid the relegation battle this season. Watford, however, had a number of star performers with all of the front 6 involved in the goals. Midfielder Imran Louza was the best performer on the pitch. The 24-year-old Moroccan international with his incredible passing ability stood out on the pitch and scored 1 and assisted 1 as well.

## Leicester City – Coventry City (2-1)
Leicester are the outright favourites to not just get promoted but win the league as well going into the season and boy oh boy! they lived up to the hype. Enzo Maresca’s men lined up in a 4-3-3 formation with new signing Harry Winks at the heart of the midfield. In what was an even game in the first half, Mark Robins’ men scored from a corner right after half-time. The foxes were patient and kept pushing for goals which eventually came through Kiernan Dewsbury-hall. The midfielder was one of the brightest sparks this weekend in the Championship and showed how vital he is going to be for Leicester’s promotion push. Dewsbury-hall scored a couple of brilliant goals to win it for the foxes. For Coventry, new striker Ellis Simms struggled to create an impact and showed it is indeed going to take some time for him to fill the shoes of the departed Viktor Gyökeres.

## Sunderland – Ipswich Town (1-2)

Two of the most exciting teams from the EFL last season went against each other at the Stadium of Light. Kieran Mckenna’s Ipswich came into this fixture as favourites to win it but the tractor boys started the game slowly with Tony Mowbray’s Sunderland dominating the early few minutes. As the game grew, Ipswich started creating chances. Nathan Broadhead playing on the left side of the attacking trio was involved in almost every attacking move that Town had created. Sunderland having missed the opportunity to go ahead when debutant Jobe Bellingham hit one above the cross bar quickly went ahead in the first half stoppage time. Ipswich then added a second through George Hirst and also had opportunities to finish the tie but Sunderland scored a late one through midfielder Daniel Neil after having right-back Trai Hume sent off but Ipswich had all the control towards the dying minutes to ensure they take all the points back home.
It was clear that Sunderland missed a goal scorer up front with Ross Stewart injured and 19-year-old Luis Hemir struggling to create any sort of impact upfront. This could be a problem for Sunderland and they will be looking to see if they can find an alternative for this in the short-term.

# Talking points from the rest of the matches:
Cardiff shocked a number of people by taking a 2-goal lead against Daniel Farke’s Leeds United only for Leeds to come back with a late equaliser from Crysencio Summerville who was in fact the best player on the pitch by a mile. Stoke City got off to an excellent putting on a show against Rotherham United with the Potters clearly the better team over the course of 90 minutes. Stoke City are one of the dark horses for promotion this season after an underwhelming few seasons. Jerry Yates scored on his debut to earn the Swans a draw in their first game under new manager Micheal Duff against Birmingham City. The result is a positive for Birmingham City after they appointed John Eustace as their manager during the manager and are currently one of the teams expected to go down this season. Plymouth Argyle won their first game back in the championship against Neil Warnock’s Huddersfield Town with Argyle their better team over the 90 minutes – creating more chances in the game. Norwich City had to come from behind to secure all three points against Hull City with the Canaries dominating in every phase of the game.

# League One: 

Out of the relegated teams, Blackpool and Wigan had positive starts to their campaigns winning against Burton and Derby respectively. Reading, however, had a disappointing start to the season losing against Peterborough United. The tie was even for most part. Derby, with high expectations under manager Paul Warne, losing to Wigan was one of the surprising results of the weekend. Promoted Northampton town lost to another promoted team, Stevenage. Leyton Orient deservedly lost to Charlton 1-0 and Carlisle drew 1-1 with Fleetwood in what was a fairly even tie. The standout result of the weekend was Barnsley beating Port Vale 7-0
In terms of individual performances, Devante Cole became the first player to score a hattrick this season, and Shayne Lavery put in a clinic in front of goal scoring a brace for Blackpool.

# League Two:

Promoted Wrexham and Notts County were hit for 5 goals respectively after returning to the EFL. Promotion favourites Stockport County lost to Gillingham. Forest Green Rovers also lost their first game back in League Two. The result of the weekend goes to Sutton United with a 5-star performance against Notts County.
Individually MK Dons’ Jonathan Leko was the player of the weekend scoring two and assisting one.


